[bellowing]
[shrieking]
[chittering]
[command center chatter]
[rapid beeping]
[line ringing]
[Barris] Yes. Mr. Secretary.
The situation is evolving rapidly.
You were always a master
of understatement. weren't you. Reddick?
Look. since this thing popped up
in their back yard 18 hours ago.
the Australian Parliament are demanding
the US make good
on the mutual Titan defense pact.
Sir. you know as well as I do
that we haven't had much luck
exercising the military option.
We've thrown everything we have at 'em.
Not everything.
Sir. we did that once at Bikini Atoll.
Oh. well. technology's much more advanced
since Castle Bravo.
It's. uh. tactical. Limited.
Limited?
Sir. the-the fallout from that option is
still the same in every sense of the word.
Where's the nearest population center?
[sighs]
About ten miles inland.
I'm in the process now
of clearing everyone out. about 300 miles.
Okay. then get a move on.
Our assets are on their way.
Sir. what I'd like to say is--
No. We have an opportunity here. Redd.
We're taking it.
We don't have any other options.
Yes. sir.
[line drops]
[pilot] Coming in on our final approach.
Clear the deck. please.
[operator] Copy that. Deck is clear.
[sighs]
All right. Let's just. uh. be cool.
Do you think he'll believe us?
That you have an emotional connection
to a monster?
We won't lead with it.
[knocking on door]
[Barris] Yeah. what is it?
Sir.
we've had some people come aboard
I think you should talk to.
[sighs] Director Barris?
Well. welcome aboard.
Dr. Randa. I got people
looking for you all over.
and you just walk right in
through my door.
I should have both of you
escorted to asset management.
No. I think you
should listen to them. sir.
- Oh. you do?
- Yes. I do.
We just need a minute of your time.
[Barris] Yeah. I don't have a minute.
I have a Titan on the coast of Australia.
That's not your biggest problem.
And what is?
Lee Shaw.
[Barris] What does Colonel Shaw
have to do with this?
[Tim] Shaw has a plan
to deal with the Titan by himself.
I know it's a little odd because
he's usually such a team player.
According to Dr. Suzuki. he going to use
a burst of concentrated gamma rays
to attract another Titan to Titan X.
Another Titan?
Godzilla.
[engine revving]
[Titan X bellows]
[birds squawking]
[grunts]
[Titan X bellows]
[Titan X roars]
[grunts]
Hey. Charlie.
Are we picking anything up
on global network?
Anything on G-TASS?
Any Titan activity at all
other than what we're seeing here?
[Charlie] No. sir.
Nothing on our scopes other than Titan X.
The board's clear.
Can he actually do it?
Can Shaw call Godzilla?
Well. no. I… It's… [stammers]
Look. Dr. Serizawa said that Godzilla
was the king of the monsters.
He's not gonna do anything
he doesn't wanna do.
[Keiko] But there is a precedent.
We believe Godzilla showed up
at Bikini Atoll
because of the radiation emitted
by the Castle Bravo H-bomb.
Lee has a device that can simulate
the same energy signature.
Titan bait.
[Keiko] Has the Titan moved
since it arrived?
[Tim] No. but we are picking up
heightened energy output from Titan X.
These readings have been going up steadily
since it hit the coast.
But do you know what it means?
Well. it's the same energy spikes we see
when Godzilla's powering up
before an attack. so…
Not ideal.
[Keiko] Is there any other reason
it could be increasing his energy output?
Any other evidence of aggressive behavior?
Well. the fact that it camped up
on the beach
is already being interpreted
as aggressive behavior.
And if we wait. it could be too late.
Too late?
What did the Secretary of Defense say?
Oh.
A fleet of 20 ships armed with
nuclear-tipped Tomahawk cruise missiles
are headed our way as we speak.
- Nuclear?
- [Tim] Wh-What the hell are we t…
You realize she was literally on the beach
the last time we ran this play?
How… How did that work out?
They'll be here in less than three hours.
Then we have three hours.
[Barris] To do what?
[sighs] According to
my husband's research.
Titan X has followed the same migratory
route around the world for centuries
without any
documented evidence of attacks.
Until Apex interfered at Santa Soledad
and knocked it off course.
Figuring out why the Titan is off
its course and getting it back on track
is more likely to avert another
Titan attack than a nuclear weapon.
Hold on. Wait. let… Let me make sure
I understand what you're saying. You…
You wanna save the Titan?
It needs our help.
I think I can get it off the beach
and back on its migratory route.
[helicopter whirring]
[operator] Monarch eight-niner on final.
Kentaro Randa arriving.
Hey! Hey.
Cate and Keiko are here.
They're talking to Barris.
I know.
You wanna talk about Thailand?
- What about it?
- [sighs]
I don't know.
You randomly went to Thailand.
and. what. you hung out with no one?
Her name's Isabel.
Okay. who's Isabel? Am I supposed to--
Isabel Simmons.
What are you…
What? Do you mean you went to Thailand
with Isabel Simmons?
You're just not gonna tell me?
Daughter of Walter Simmons?
The founder of Apex Cybernetics.
Yes.
Because I knew you would assume
it had something to do with Apex.
Yeah. does it not?
No.
She's not that bad.
She actually hates Apex
just as much as we do.
Just leave it. okay?
It was just a visit. Nothing more.
[sighs]
[Barris] It needs our help?
And how do you know that?
What? Did you talk to it?
[sighs] I can't explain it. but it's…
It's a sense.
- A sense?
- [Cate] Yes.
[Keiko] Cate knew that the Titan was lost
even before we knew
- that it was off its migratory route…
- [Barris] Whoa.
…even before Monarch
knew that it was missing.
And that is not data
I am willing to dismiss.
Okay. listen. We have a known threat.
We know its location.
We finally have an opportunity
to deal with it.
and you want us to hold fire
based on a feeling that it needs our help.
Monarch has always tried to find
improbable solutions
to impossible problems.
It kinda feels like we're staring
at a textbook case right now.
[Cate] You said we have three hours.
All you're risking are two Randas
you wanted hauled off
to asset management anyway.
[Tim] You said you wanted answers.
You said there were too many
"I don't knows" in this situation.
Maybe they can help us.
You've got to at least let her try
to get it back on track.
Or maybe they can make
the situation worse.
Have you considered that?
[sighs] "Risking two Randas."
I hope you're up for this.
Uh. we're prepping a chopper
to get you ashore.
It'll take about 20 minutes.
uh. half-hour flight time.
and you're on the ground
with two hours and change.
Hey.
Hi.
Feel the love.
Okay. go get ready.
Chopper leaves in 20.
[Keiko] It's good to see you.
[sighs]
[phone buzzing]
[Isabel] Kentaro?
Are you there?
I'm here.
[grunts]
Come get some. boy!
[device beeps. whirring]
[pulsating]
[Cate] Kentaro. can we talk?
Sure. [sighs]
What you said at the funeral…
it's okay if you're not okay with me.
- I'm fine.
- Or with what happened at Santa Soledad.
Cate. I'm fine.
I just…
I just sometimes have dreams about Dad.
Good dreams.
No.
[sighs] You don't have to do this.
To come with us and see the Titan.
Don't say that.
What?
Don't say this isn't my mission too.
We have to stop Titan X
from killing anyone else.
which means getting it away from here.
It's saving it.
Whatever.
Let's go. let's go.
Let's go.
[radio chatter]
[controller] You can take off.
- Copy that.
- [radio chatter continues]
[sonar beeping]
[sighs]
I need to speak to Holland.
Apex is up to something.
Isabel Simmons reached out
to Kentaro in Tokyo.
And Kentaro is saying that it's nothing.
He literally just got back
from seeing Isabel in Thailand.
You don't trust Kentaro?
No. I… [sighs]
I don't trust the Simmons.
[sighs]
I think about what happened to her.
She… [inhales sharply]
Every second of every day.
[somber music playing]
Tim. I can't just sit back
and wait for something else to go bad.
You know. Hiroshi used to say.
"We're in the monster business.
so any mistake is gonna be huge."
[chuckles]
But you don't back off.
You learn from your mistakes
and you do better.
No shit.
- Hey.
- Hmm?
- No shit.
- [chuckles]
If you think there is a risk.
then you should pursue it.
[pensive music playing]
I'll cover for you.
[chuckles]
Better get going. I'll make arrangements.
[pilot] Monarch Five-Five to Outpost 18.
Approaching Titan X now.
We have a visual on the landing site.
[operator] Copy.
[pilot] Look at the size of that thing.
[Titan X roars]
[Titan X continues roaring]
[ominous music playing]
[birds squawking]
[helicopter whirring]
The hell?
What is it?
- There.
- [copilot] Birds on the left!
- [thuds]
- [all scream]
[helicopter blades whirring]
- [pilot] Mayday!
- [copilot] We're going down!
Whoa.
[pilot speaks indistinctly]
Jesus.
[grunts]
Are they okay? Are they on the ground?
Monarch Five-Five. do you copy?
Monarch Five-Five. respond.
[pilot. distorted]
This is Monarch Five-Five.
We suffered a hard landing.
Location in… [cutting out]
Need immediate evac…
Roger that. Five-Five. Evac on the way.
All right. hey. listen.
Do not lose contact with them again.
- You understand?
- Right.
Good work.
Need an evac on Monarch Five-Five.
[energy humming]
[dramatic music playing]
[bellows]
[wind whistling]
Kei!
[Keiko] Lee!
Jesus! [grunts] What the hell?
Are you all right?
[breathing heavily]
I'm all right. I'm all right.
- How about everybody else? Hey.
- [breathing heavily]
They're okay.
[chuckling] I didn't know it was you.
I just…
Ah. shit.
I… [pants]
Why?
[exhales sharply]
Why… What are you doing here. Kei?
[breathing heavily]
What are you doing here. Lee?
Uh. looking for Brenda Holland.
[agent] Down the hall.
First room on the right.
- [lock buzzes]
- [door creaks]
[door closes]
[May] Déjà vu.
You move fast.
Took you. what. two days
to make it through the ranks at Monarch?
[chuckles] No. They gave me a pass
to come and talk to you.
Are you okay?
Yeah. I am.
How can I help?
I was going through your transcripts.
I saw that you've been claiming
that you went against Apex protocols.
Brenda. why are you lying?
I am here to make sure
Monarch has all the information they need
to assess events
that took place on Santa Soledad.
- I am cooperating.
- Come on.
I've been in a room
like this before. Lying.
Because I was afraid of what would happen
if I told the truth.
Is it the same for you?
Is that the condition
they put on your golden parachute?
You were right. Corah.
I went too far.
My ambition got ahead of me.
and I am responsible
for what happened on Santa Soledad.
You're not the only one who's responsible.
I am accountable for my actions. Corah.
Can we get some water. please?
Not tap. Thank you.
[footsteps departing]
Please let this go.
What does Walter Simmons' daughter want
with Kentaro Randa?
[Cate] It's so still.
[Lee] I'm just saying
you don't want to be here.
Why?
Because the bait's already been set.
You got evac on the way?
They're scrambling
to get another bird in the air.
[Lee] You better hope they get here
long before Godzilla does.
There has to be more than one way
to deal with the Titan. Lee.
I'm sure there is. Kei.
But right now. I'll take Godzilla.
We still have time
before the naval fleet arrives. correct?
- Correct.
- The naval fleet?
Yes. Lee.
The US military also has plans
to destroy the Titan.
and Cate and I are gonna do what
we came here to do before they arrive.
Well. you might wanna get on the horn
and tell Monarch
to tell that fleet to stand down.
because when Godzilla gets here.
whatever they're planning won't work
to destroy a Titan. let alone two.
Thank you.
And what is it exactly
that you and Cate are planning to do?
Try to get Titan X
back on its migratory routes.
There we go. Save a Titan.
Is what you're trying to do any better?
Look. Kei. this isn't the 1950s.
The world has changed.
Humanity's relationship with the Titans
changed forever on G-Day.
You just missed it.
I didn't miss anything.
I was there on G-day.
I lost people I loved.
That Titan killed your father…
and your son.
So I am begging you to please
get as far away from this beach
as you possibly can
before that Titan or Godzilla kills you.
I'll be waiting for everybody
in the truck.
If Cate wants to go. she should go.
She should at least try.
Before the fleet gets here or Godzilla.
You can do it.
Go.
[Kentaro] I'll keep an eye on her.
[Keiko] Go do it. I'll distract Lee.
[tense music playing]
When did that happen?
A day after Hiroshi's funeral.
Thank you.
Well. that was very nice of Isabel
to reach out and offer her sympathies.
Stop.
What does she want with him?
She has nothing to do with Apex.
I know that you know. What are they doing?
Walter Simmons isn't done.
[inhales sharply] When I first met you.
I underestimated you.
I assumed I understood your motivations
when you joined AET.
I was wrong. and I paid a price.
Yeah. I paid a price too.
Yes.
Because you assumed you understood AET.
And you were wrong.
Okay. Let's just remind me
of my mistakes today. okay.
[sighs] I have one more meeting
with Monarch intelligence.
so possibly…
this will be our last talk.
I wish you the best of luck. Corah.
We're done here.
- [lock buzzes]
- [door opens]
[door closes]
[soft music playing]
[Titan X bellowing]
[breathing heavily]
[bellowing]
[ominous music playing]
[scarabs shrieking]
[breathing heavily]
Cate!
I'm okay.
[roars]
Hey. you don't have to do this.
[breathes heavily]
I do.
[bellowing]
Lee!
Are they coming?
[Keiko sighs]
We should be working together.
We both want the same thing.
But we don't.
At least what I'm doing
is the natural order of things.
This is how Titans work.
You know how Titans work?
Nobody knows. Lee.
It's been 60 years since Billy's map.
and all we have is more weapons.
We need to understand them
to save humanity.
Give me one hard fact.
anything that you've learned
that allows you to say that
with certainty. Kei. Just one.
I can't.
All I know is that we need
to get Titan X back on course
or people will keep dying.
Is that not enough?
No.
No. not when you put yourself.
Cate. and Kentaro in danger.
No Titan's life worth that.
Are your convictions
worth the risk you're taking?
My risk. Kei.
I'm the only one in the line of fire.
Until you put all of us in Gojira's path.
Oh. no. no. no. You did that.
I was gonna be out here by myself.
Just Godzilla. the Titan and me.
Nobody else around. Nothing!
You're not supposed to be here. Kei.
[pensive music playing]
Where am I supposed to be. Lee?
Anywhere but here.
[ominous music playing]
[breathes heavily]
Oh. my gosh.
What is that?
It's a nest. [breathes shakily]
Oh. my God.
This is why it's here!
It's an egg.
The Titan built a nest.
[line ringing]
Hello?
We're running out of time. Kentaro.
We've pinpointed your location.
They have a whole team standing by.
Have you located the scarabs yet?
Kentaro?
Yeah. um. I don't know
if my father would have wanted this.
Your father died because of Cate.
[Kentaro sighs] She's not a bad person.
[Isabel] Whatever Cate intends.
this approach will only end up
in more death. more destruction.
Listen. if this plan isn't gonna work.
I need to know now.
It'll work. The plan will work.
Forget about the scarabs.
Tell Trissop there's an egg.
Where are they?
[Keiko] She's doing
what she came here to do.
[Lee] Damn it.
[tense music playing]
[Titan X bellowing]
The scarabs built a nest
for the Titan's offspring.
You're telling me
there's more of these things?
I told you it doesn't want to harm us.
This changes everything.
This Titan is a mother.
That's why she can't leave right now.
[groaning]
[whimpers. breathes heavily]
Tim! He's here.
and he is minutes from the coast.
Bad… This is very bad!
- Report.
- [Tim sighs]
Godzilla has emerged in the Pacific
and is rapidly headed this direction.
Is this because of Shaw?
Maybe. but it's also possible he noticed
that Titan X was off its course
and just showed up on his own.
What is the status of my rescue team?
Five minutes out.
They don't have that time.
Let's go! Let's go!
- [operator] Sir?
- Yes?
I have several unidentified vehicles
that have passed the Monarch perimeter.
- What is it? Do you have a visual?
- No. They're not responding.
Get me the fleet commander.
No one gets within a hundred miles
of the coast.
We need to hold those missiles.
[Godzilla roars]
Hey. hey. Cate. Cate. we need to go.
Move. Cate!
[roaring]
[clamoring]
- [Kentaro] Cate!
- [breathes heavily]
[dramatic music playing]
- [Titan X roars]
- [Godzilla roars]
We need to get them out of here.
Ah. damn it.
There may not be a way through.
- We need to go!
- [shrieks]
Ground zero.
There she is! Let's go!
[Titan X roars]
Is that the egg?
[Cate] What are they doing?
Kentaro. what the hell is going on?
Cate. we need to go.
You lied to me!
- You're working with them!
- I'm not.
But this is what needs to happen.
[soldier] Go. go!
[Trissop] We got the payload in sight.
My team stays until objective's secure.
[soldier] Copy.
Two and three. move out!
Team one. stay! Let's go!
Don't get in front!
[energy thrumming]
[screams]
[Lee] Jesus. did that get them?
[Keiko] They're safe.
[soldier] Let's get out of here.
Go. go. go.
[Lee] Come on.
They're gonna make it.
Let's get out of here.
[shrieks]